## "All through my coffee BREAK time, I say a little prayer for you"

In this day and age, almost everyone has a complicated relationship with work and rest. We are all filled with buzzwords and phrases like *work-life balance*, *girlbossing* etc. At first glance, this may seem kind of pretty and appealing. In our society, being "lazy" is not acceptable and many people when talking about an ideal partner often mention words like *driven* and *passionate* when it comes to the person's career. 

When I talk to new people, my first few questions are always "what do you do for work?" or "what do you study?", depending on the context. God forbid, a person tells me that they are studying philosophy or arts. The reactionary side of my brain reacts very reactionarily. *This is not useful*, I say. How can someone **risk** their livelihood and study something that they are simply interested in? Don't they care about where their bread and housing will come from? 

I am obsessed with utility and everything useful. Many of us are. Our environment is extremely goal- and achievement- oriented. We want to be *productive*, we strongly desire to be and do better than others. Survival of the fittest and the early bird gets the worm. This mindset is very well highlighted in the ever-increasing levels of burn out, depression, and even suicide not only amongst the young but also amongst the older people. Our dystopian obsession with productivity achieves an opposite to the desired effect - it is destructive rather than constructive. Despite being so horrible to people, these thoughts and ideals are instilled into us from a very young age. Even now, if I told you (and myself) to imagine a good student, it would most likely be a person who *wakes up early*, has a clear and rigid schedule, studies from dusk till dawn, and somehow finds time to work out and maybe (optional) hang out with friends. I am sure that many of us have tried to embody this idealistic lifestyle and seen how unsustainable (and in many cases even direly unproductive) it is. Yet, hard work and long hours of slaving away with books and math problems are still THE ideal for this hypothetical perfect student. 

I have heard many peers bragging about only sleeping 2 to 5 hours the night before and treating sleep derpivation as a competition. The sound of a redbull can opening at 8:15 at the start of the morning lecture is a signature sound while you are sitting in the auditorium with barely open eyes, blinded by flourescent lights and trying to comprehend vector space axioms. It is an experience and a feeling that I myself am guilty of romanticising from time to time. "put down the chat gpt. consume too much caffeine and nicotine and write a paper that you barely understand while you approach hallucination territory from too little sleep and too much raging. engage with academia in the way god intended." This sounds very cutesy and appealing and dark-academia-esque and kafka-coded and omg I love coffee. Even one of my teachers has told me once "the first half of our lives is for ruining our health and the second half is for trying to fix it." It is all very cutesy until you have to face the consequences. 

It will probably come as no surprise that I do not appreciate nor want to encourage this toxic productivity culture. There should not be such a thing as "work-life" balance. We should not even work to live or live to work. Taking time to rest is of extreme importance to our brains. It is a crucial part of the process of learning. I personally have found an interesting approach to my university semesters that are 14 weeks long. The first 5-7 weeks I spent engaging with the material as a very interested 5-year-old. I read a lot, I have a lot of "ooohhhh so that's how it works" moments, and spend a lot of time doing my homework and trying to understand the behind-the-scenes of everything. Then the second half of semester I spam my brain with mock exams, slowly start to focus almost purely on the information required for the exam, and make sure that I get anywhere from 8.5 to 9 hours of sleep a night (with a fairly strict bed time to ensure consistency). I have found that 8 hours of sleep are not enough for me. The most important thing throughout the semester is keeping my scheduled study time to a maximum of 8 to 9 hours a day. I am lucky enough where I do not have to find a lot of time for a part-time job or other responsibilities, so the rest of the time I just eat, rest, read, crochet, or do something else that I find interesting and/or relaxing. One day a week, in my humble opinion, has to be your "holy day". That is, if you need, you should be able to rot in bed the whole day soomscrolling or watching ridiculous youtube deep dives. I still feel guilty for taking time off, especially whole days off, so I try to fit in grocery shopping and cleaning into my rest day. As long as I am not stressing over an exam or doing math, anything passes as a rest activity. And these rest activities should be as varied as possible. 

Attempting to learn all the material on earth is not productive and will not be constructive in the long run. Sleeping and resting are very important for our learning as well. Once again, I would like to emphasize that I am lucky enough to speak from a very privileged position as I am not, for example, a single mom with 3 jobs trying to make ends meet which is becoming a sad reality for so many. But, if we do have the resources to allow ourselves rest, sleep, and reset periods, I strongly believe that we should do so. It is time to stop fetishizing the process of overworking yourself even if the system really wants you to do so. 

This work thing also have a lot of religious undertones. One of the 7 Deadly Sins is Sloth. Being "lazy" is seen as something punishable and despicable. We purposefully dehumanize ourselves and turn ourselves into these work machines that are constantly in action. I would argue that being "lazy" in moderation should actually be a value. We deserve to rest and enjoy life *before* we die and lay down in our graves. This may sound very cliche but I highly doubt that on your death bed you will be happy that you worked 50 hours a week every week and did not spend time to perfect that paper plane building strategy that you so desperately wanted to master when you were younger. 

Sometimes, the most productive thing you can do is to sleep <3
