## There are *Many Worlds* and I don't know which one is true

As the semester started approaching its end and the labs were finally over, I found myself with way too much time on my hands, so I decided to... read. This semester I am taking a Quantum Mechanics and a Statistical Physics course. Both of these subjects I find particularly fascinating in their own ways so I decided to try and look for something that would mesh both of them. And so there it was, this paper from 1970 called **The Statistical Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics** by L. E. Ballentine. And I dug right into it hoping for some conventional science. From the very first few pages the author was very friendly towards the reader with nice and understandable definitions (readable to someone with a limited background in quantum mechanics) but he was not so friendly towards the fellow scientists, his tone and sometimes his words verbatim implied that everyone is wrong except this beautiful Statistical Interpretation. Needless to say, I was intriguied and decided to commit to reading through the paper whenever I had some spare time. 

I am reading, hurting my brain and suddenly this guy says the wave function does not *reduce* [collapse] after a measurement. Now I was under the impression that the collapse of the wavefunction was a physical fact as much real as "electrons exist" (which is also a debatable topic because of course it is). Apparently not. Apparently this was an *interpretation* of quantum mechanics. For the sake of completion, before continuing with my thoughts, I will give a very simple definition of what a wavefunction even is. A `wavefunction` is a function/formula that describes a quantum-mechanical system. If we know the wavefunction, we can say many things about how the system behaves (what trajectory a particle moves, does it bounce off an obstacle or moves past it etc.). The most unintuitive thing about quantum mechanics, however, is the fact that we don't deal with deterministic results but rather with probabilities. So, given a set of initial conditions, say, a particle starts at point A with velocity v, you cannot for sure say that a particle will end up at point B after some time has passed. Where particle "*chooses*" to be is not for us to decide nor predict. So, interpreting a wavefunction is not as straighforward as it might seem at first glance. 

To my current understanding, the math in all interpretations is basically the same, the only thing that really differs among them is what you make of the acquired results. For example, the Copenhagen interpretation is one of interpretations that contains the wavefunction collapse as a concept. To put it shortly, it says that a wavefunction describes quantum mechanics and after we make a measurement in a system (measure, say, the position of a particle in a system), the wavefunction collapses to a particular value. If we take an example of the position of a particle, a ruler can really only measure a single value at a time while quantum mechanics kind of states that the particle is *everywhere* in the available space with some probability. So measurement gives you something classical, a single value instead of a probability distribution. That is why the Copenhagen Interpretation states that measurement and the collapse of the wavefunction act like a bridge between the quantum and the classical worlds. To someone unfamiliar with the field, this might seem like a pretty convincing argument. Even many experienced scientists follow the Copenhagen Interpretation. To me, however, it does not seem satisfactory. First of all, where is that bridge? That river, separating the classical from the quantum? Secondly, and most importantly, the Copenhagen Interpretation puts special emphasis on an observer. So... If I didn't see it, that must mean it did not happen????

Another popular interpretation is the Many Worlds Interpretation, this one does not collapse the wavefunction but rather says that each possibility for a particle to be in a state that can be described by the wavefunction is "realized" in a different world. This one has its own problems as well and I do not like it very much either. It feels more like a fairytale to sleep better at night that quantum mechanics is deterministic in its own unique way rather than purely probabilistic. I think professor David Tong explains these interpretations very elegantly and comprehensively in his [freely accessible notes](https://www.damtp.cam.ac.uk/user/tong/quantum.html) if you are interested in reading more about them. 

I personally currently am mostly a "Shut Up and Calculate" type of person but I still feel like it's one thing to get the math and to apply it and it's a completely different thing to actually understand it. So this Statistical Interpretation really caught my attention. The author says that, as opposed to describing a particular system, the wavefunction describes an *ensemble of similarly prepared systems*. This is already a very statistical concept. Basically, the paper claims that instead of describing, say, a particular electron (which would be the traditional way to look at it), the wavefunction describes what 1000 of identical electrons would do. Just as from a single coinflip or a single roll of die we cannot deterministically predict that one particular outcome but we can say what the average outcome would be of many such coinflips or rolls of dice. Now this interpretation actually yields some very elegant results, particularly regarding measurements in quantum mechanics and how an existence of an observer is not at all a critical part of a measurement. However, it also interprets Heisenberg's uncertainty principle completely differently from what I was taught and have got used to. 

"You can't know both the position and the momentum of the particle at the same time." To be more sophisticated and precise, one cannot simultaneously measure the values of two non-commuting observables. This has always made sense to me, mostly because I took it as more of a postulate since it directly follows from the Schroedinger's equation.  The Statistical Interpretation, however, states that the uncertainty inequality applies to the standard deviations of measurements rather than their uncertainties. So once again, very statistical and it makes a lot of sense. 

After reading the paper, I felt fairly convinced of this interpretation but now I a wondering why it is not so popular. I certainly need to ponder on it more. Since quantum mechanics is inherently probabilistic (almost no one believes otherwise), it would make sense to have a statistical model. Whether or not I end up accepting this interpretation after further investigation does not really make a huge difference as this experience has allowed me to acquire an even deeper appreciation towards the unintuitiveness and beauty of what quantum mechanics has to offer and I cannot wait to learn even more. Which of the *many worlds* do you think is true?